good morning I've got to talk for a
couple of minutes about machining some
curves on the lathe machine curves on
manual they can be quite difficult if
you want to make a small radius like
this for example
then he could make reform talk they
would need to make a different form tool
for each size radius Jewish to cut and
if the piece was a particularly large
the stars of the toward becoming
practical and at very least with chatter
a lot we're going to demonstrate the
lathe code software that makes this job
simple ain't quite fun to do the tool
calculates a series of cuts to make
using a normal right hand cutting tool
to give you some way you're gonna see
this but I'll bring the tool up over a
very snowy Stansted Airport background
you see it does all the usual things
both circles quartz triangles we can
look at the later curve tool this brings
you up an array of options to cut the
radius cosine a socket curve or we're
just for the kind of radius
save it to the default fire
this
they put an inside diameter of 10
millimeters outside of 28 and we're
going to do it in 18 cut that will give
us a fairly coarse finish let's just do
that calculation for now so let's save
the coordinates to a file change that to
36 do it again
let's saved it to the same father
this is the file is produced first need
the 18 cups in half mil steps and then
the 36 cuts in quarter mil steps
gives you the step number the start X is
obviously always starting from zero
point and how far to cut along in this
case four point four nine eight three
millimeters and positioning of the Y
which is the cross live in the light so
we simply take that file off to the
lathe make a series of cuts and we end
up with our radius
we can make a cosine cup which is
slightly gentler slope this is a cosine
cut I've deliberately left it course so
that you can see how the Tool Works it
iterates my series of cuts cutting
they're gradually getting closer to the
center and adjusting the distance that
you cut down to so you get series of
iterations if this is a coarse cut you
can see that it's in small steps they
then do a finer cut to smooth it up and
you can finish it with a piece of Emery
paper or a wire wall to polish it right
up to a nice smooth finish you can use
the internal calculator to calculate a
ball socket for example
go to machinery calculator got my smart
tools calm which I'll show you below and
have a look for yourself
you